---
layout: post
title: Resume
hide: true
search_exclude: true
---

# Vivek Vaddina

----

> <font size=2>Data Scientist with over 6 years of experience in Python & Machine Learning helping build data intensive applications in diverse industries. Proficient in data wrangling, predictive modeling, and data visualization with sufficient knowledge in taking ideas from concept to production.</font>
----


## Experience

<a href="https://sezzle.eu"><font size="5rem"><i>Sezzle</i></font></a>
<br/> <font size="2rem">Berlin, Germany (Remote)</font>
<br/> <font size="2rem">Data Scientist</font>
<br/> <font size="2rem">Sep 2021 - May 2022</font>

- `Fraud Detection` - Conceptualized & developed a machine learning based model to counter fraud attempts during checkout.
    - Dockerised application made available as a micro service communicating via a REST API developed with FastAPI & validated with Pydantic.
    - Model was shown to be able to perform **~27%** better than the existing rules with a **>20%** improvement in detection of card transaction failure rate during backtesting.


<a href="https://free-now.com/de"><font size="5rem"><i>Free Now</i></font></a>
<br/> <font size="2rem">Hamburg, Germany</font>
<br/> <font size="2rem">Data Scientist</font>
<br/> <font size="2rem">May 2019 - Aug 2021</font>


- `Driver Churn Prediction` - Worked with CRM, Supply & Marketing teams to develop an end to end driver tour forecasting model that’s used for Churn prediction to engage with drivers early on with a starting accuracy of **~80%**.
    - Tasks included EDA, modeling, writing ETL, training & inference pipeline DAGs with Airflow. Data queried using Hive & Presto and models deployed with Docker, k8s on MLflow. Results were made easily accessible to stakeholders with a Metabase dashboard <i class="fa-solid fa-chart-line"></i>.
- `Quests Recommender System` - Worked on a framework to assign quests to drivers to increase their activity and steer supply when needed; aiming to improve KPIs like *Driver Acceptance Rate, Passenger Pickup Rate, RoI* etc. 
    - Tasks included predicting driver shifts based on their past activity, improving driver selection for quests by segmentation etc.
- `GMV Forecasting` - Reduced the prediction error by **20-60%** across all headquarters esp. by incorporating holidays and other events in a time-series forecasting model using Prophet.
- `Improving MRR for destination selection` - Combined users’ past destinations & essential local travel points to improve the list of top *X* destinations displayed on a limited mobile screen space; thereby helping users to type less and tap more. Designed a dashboard to showcase results with widgets in Redash.

<a href="https://newyorker.de"><font size="5rem"><i>NewYorker</i></font></a>
<br/> <font size="2rem">Berlin, Germany</font>
<br/> <font size="2rem">Data Scientist</font>
<br/> <font size="2rem">Mar 2017 - Apr 2019</font>

- `Sales & Revenue Forecasting` - Developed machine learning models for optimizing incoming order quantities of seasonal fashion items and their arrivals to optimize sales and revenue.
- `Prototyping & PoC` - Designed UI and made a PoC to experiment with various properties of orders & sales such as changing order placement dates, quantities and base selling price etc. while offering predictions of sales/demand as a result in real time.
- `ETL` - Wrote ETL pipelines for huge volumes of data using Luigi & PySpark.

---

Skills
------

| Category | Tools |
|-|-|   
| ML Analytics | Numpy, Pandas, scikit-learn, InterpretML, MLFlow, XGBoost, Fastai, PyTorch, Prophet |
| Visualization | Matplotlib, Seaborn, hvPlot, Holoviews, Bokeh, Kepler |
| Databases | PostgreSQL, AWS RedShift, HDFS, MongoDB |
| Query Engines | Hive, Presto/Trino, PySpark |
| Dashboarding | Redash, Metabase |
| Web Frameworks | FastAPI |
| Prototyping | Miro, LucidChart |
| Miscellaneous | Git, Airflow, CI/CD, Docker |
| Languages | English (C1), German (B1) |


Community
---------

<a href="https://coderbee.de"><font size="5rem"><i>Coder Bee</i></font></a>
<br/> <font size="2rem">Berlin, Germany (Remote)</font>
<br/> <font size="2rem">Mentor/Tutor, ex-Co-Organizer</font>
<br/> <font size="2rem">Apr 2021 - Sep 2021</font>

- Python/Data Science mentor of an inclusive, community oriented coding school focusing on women and underrepresented groups in IT where regular hack evenings, talk nights are conducted.


Education
---------

Aug 2013 - Sep 2016
:   **Msc, Computer Science**; RWTH Aachen University
    <br>Aachen, Germany
    
    Thesis: Sentiment Analysis of Norwegian Twitter data using Deep Learning (Thesis Grade: 1.3)

**For more information, please visit my <i class="fa-brands fa-linkedin"></i> below**
